Let's look at a few examples of hierarchical clustering.
But before that, we can discuss advantages and disadvantages.
The main advantage that we get from hierarchical clustering is
that the resulting hierarchical representations are
very informative and they provide us with
an additional ability to visualize the clustering structure of the datasets.
Hierarchical clustering is especially potent when the data
contains real hierarchical relationships inside of it,
kind of like evolutionary biology.
The disadvantages of hierarchical clustering is that, one,
it's sensitive to noise and outliers so you're going to have to
clean up the data set from any noise and outliers beforehand,
and that it's computationally intensive.
So if you have a large data set with a lot of dimensions,
it can be a little bit slow running at big O of N squared.
One example of an application of hierarchical clustering
is this paper that uses average linkage, actually,
to cluster secreted proteins and uses that to create clusters different types of fungus.
Another example uses complete linkage to draw this diagram of the human microbiome.
And you'll find links to these and other applications in the text below the video.
And with this, now,
we are ready to look at density-based clustering with DBSCAN in the next video.